fix: review of my blog post (#1)
benoitf/eclipse-che-blog: _posts/2021-12-20-start-a-workspace-by-entering-a-url.adoc

slug: /@florent.benoit/start-a-workspace-by-entering-a-url
---

// https://excalidraw.com/#json=3zYwB9DOAkwySS_Mj5coI,-DRn9IliQXj1slGJWAdqFw
image::../../../assets/img/start-a-workspace/start-workspace-link.png[Start a workspace link,link="../../assets/img/start-a-workspace/start-workspace-link.png"]

> == Starting a workspace by entering a URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Authoring an URL to start a workspace
```

> === Short URL syntax for cloning hosted Git repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Defining the Git repository to clone
```

Reviewer: Question: I understand we can not clone multiple repositories, but it is not clearly stated.

> === Short URL syntax for cloning hosted Git repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Definining the Git repository to clone
```

+
`#https://gitlab.com/_<user_or_org>_/_<repository>_/-/tree/_<branch>_`

URL syntax for cloning BitBucket-hosted repositories:

WARNING: {prod} supports only on premises BitBucket instances.

> === Using a different editor or Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Defining the editor or Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
```

====

=== Creating or reusing a workspace

If you enter a URL such as `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar]` and you don’t have any workspace named `bar`, {prod} creates a workspace named `bar` and clones the GitHub repository.

Each time you enter a URL such as `{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar` again, {prod} reopens the existing workspace `bar`.

=== Always creating a new workspace

To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar?new]`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).

== Authoring URL syntax reference

[options="header"]
|=======================

> |parameter|keyword      |example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|parameter|keyword |example
```

> |parameter|keyword |example
> | repository | `#` followed by `URL_of_the_repository` | `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server/tree/7.40.x`
> | editor | `che-editor` | `?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/latest`
> | override devfile path | `devfilePath` | `?devfilePath=.che/my-devfile.yaml`
> | do not use existing workspace | `new` | `?new` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Keyword |Description |Example
| `#__<repository_URL>__` | Repository URL | `#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server/tree/7.40.x`
| `che-editor=__<ide>__`| IDE | `?che-editor=eclipse/che-theia/latest`
|  `devfilePath=__<devfile>__` | Devfile path | `?devfilePath=.che/my-devfile.yaml`
|  `new` | Always create a new workspace | `?new` 
```

====

> === Workspace creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Creating or reusing a workspace
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

=== Always creating a new workspace

```

To create another workspace each time you enter the same URL, enter the URL appended with `?new` in the URL format `pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}#http://github.com/foo/bar?new]`. Even if you already have a workspace named `bar`, each time you enter such URL, {prod} will create another, sequentially named workspace (example: `bar-abcde`).

> == Syntax recap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Authoring URL syntax reference
```
